[Music]
okay so last week Brett and I were uh
doing a groundbreakers together and one
of the things that I noticed that kept
on coming up as a theme was Finding Love
whether it was I want to find the right
person or it was I found the right
person but they they weren't you know
into me or some version of that so
that's what I want to talk about today
how to find love the misconceptions and
that and what's really going on when
you're in that state I love this topic
uh because it's it's shown up not just
in the ground Breakers that we did last
week but also others uh coaching clients
other people in life right now uh I
notic that there's sort of this pattern
right now where a lot of people have
gone through the pandemic and have had a
lot of relationship changes during or
post pandemic and so I think that's just
a question that's in the
air uh in this in this time
so yeah I'm excited to get into it so
you mentioned a couple patterns just
there and uh can you tell me a little
bit more about those sure
the so here's what I see happen I see
happen is that somebody let's do the
direct one someone's looking for love
and they somehow think it's a numbers
game that like the the common idea is
like if I meet the right person then
it's all going to work out and that's
just not how it works at all it's not at
all about meeting the right person which
seems so strange because obviously on
some level it's about meeting the right
person but it's more about like when are
you ready for the right person to show
up in your life and so we all know that
person who's like gone on a thousand
dates met a hundred people and that
nothing is quite right and it doesn't
ever work out that spark never happens
or that spark happens and then that
person that they're interested in isn't
interested in them and and so that is
not at all about finding the right
person that is about are you ready
prepared wanting to have an intimate
relationship and so what I've noticed
with all my clients who are in this
situation is that they when they when we
really work on are you ready for
intimacy are you ready to be in love are
you ready to accept love into your life
then the person always just shows up
within three or four months once I can
just see it's like I see that transition
happen in a person and then it's just
like I can start counting down and
easily within three or four months boom
they're in a committed relationship
yeah what I what I noticed there is that
the patterns that you just described are
could also be seen as ways of making
sure it doesn't happen for some
prescribed reason it's like I'm looking
for the right one I want to have the
right one of course so there's just
something wrong with everybody that I
meet that's why I don't have a partner
so I'm curious what's a what's like a
deeper way to look at it from like
what's underneath those
patterns yeah I mean that thing that's
yeah the thing that's underneath the
pattern is is that usually they are
scared of losing themselves one way or
another they're scared of losing
themselves and that can be a lot of
things they could be scared of losing
themselves as far as not drawing
boundaries and getting lost in a person
or empathetically lost in the person or
lose themselves in jealousy or lose
themselves in behavior that they don't
want or they are scared to lose
themselves the way that their parents
lost themselves in a relationship
they're like oh this is what love is
what Mom and Dad did I don't want
anything to do with that so
consciously and so I'm just staying away
from any kind of commitment or any kind
of um any kind of intimacy that could
allow that to happen so underneath the
layer of of learning to love and and
being prepared for love is this deeper
thing about this fear of losing oneself
and we can call it the fear of intimacy
or the fear of commitment but it's
really the fear of losing oneself yeah
and and that's what it's and that's
what's really going on there when people
work on that everything changes for them
yeah so that's I want to double click a
little bit more on what you mean by Lose
Yourself you mentioned a couple of
different modalities there modes uh yeah
not holding being afraid of not holding
boundaries losing control repeating your
parents
relationship getting hurt again in some
repeated way that has happened in your
past yeah uh what what else what how
would you define losing yourself here
yeah so I would say losing losing
yourself is when you're not being who
you want to be and you don't feel like
you can control
that but the interesting thing is love
in itself is another way of losing
yourself more in
a in a good way like losing identity and
losing like there's a way in which what
love does is it like erodes your
boundaries and it erod erodes your
identity which is can be incredibly
healthy it's you know creates like a a
feeling of Oneness and and uh like
there's reasons why there's so much
poetry that talks about like Unity with
God being love and that love feeling
like it's like like spiritually um moves
you into greater things or greater
greater Realms or a deeper sense of
connection with yourself and that is the
good way but then there's this way that
happens in like Society where we lose
ourselves and it's we're acting like
Monsters or we're you know in huge
fights where we weren't in huge fights
before or we are codependent and we
don't are jealous or anything like that
and and so that kind of losing oneself
is is I think what people are really
scared of I mean we're also very scared
of love as far
as like seeing our full selves and and
losing our identity but that's a that's
a whole different segment I'm not
talking about that for this one this is
all about you know just the Practical
losing of love that losing s to to this
kind of relationship yeah and it's so
fascinating how confusing and nuanced
this can be that the language even
overlaps because you were just talking
about not holding boundaries and then
how boundaries get eroded and the
different kinds of boundaries that
you're referring to like that's right
the sense of self the sense of us being
separate from other separate from our
world is a different kind of boundary
but we use the same word as drawing a
boundary to take care of one self which
is yeah seemingly paradoxically the
increase in our capacity to draw clean
loving
boundaries allows us to feel safe to
dissolve in a sense of self sense such
that we feel that Oneness and that love
with another
and yeah that's exactly that's exactly
it yeah that there is no I'm sure I've
said this on the podcast there is no
Paragon of Love there is no
person that you can think of who is like
a who's a walking embodiment of love
that isn't doesn't have strong
boundaries and yet all of those people
also feel like a Oneness with Humanity
or Oneness with all life um so it is an
interesting Paradox yeah um but the the
second part is a nice is a nice thing to
talk about the the main meat here
however is
just
people people are scared of losing
themselves and so avoid relationships
all the while thinking or telling
themselves the story that they're
looking for it and and on some level
they're looking for it but they're also
pushing it away yeah so so that one
piece there the the fear of losing
yourself yeah if we if we recognize and
we work on
that according to what you've been
saying the person just appears how's
that
go sounds kind of like magical Joe that
sounds like some magical thinking and
yet that's exactly how it happens I I
think about a David Burn song where he
says like he says a junkie's arms a
dancers's knees the laws of chance
strange as they seem lead us exactly
where we're most likely meant to
be and so I I feel like it's very much
like that and if you think about it it's
like like go to your Walmart and go and
check out the couples that are there
like people have found each other like
they have found like people find each
other all the time um and there and you
you all have a friend who's like you
know nothing I mean it's like not not
some sort of hot catch or anything like
that right like and they go just from
one boyfriend to another boyfriend or
from one girlfriend to another they're
always in a
relationship which is different than
somebody who's just like amazing and
they're like you know a total catch you
know whatever Society speaking is a
total total catch and and then they're
just like 50 years old and they can't
find they can't find the one right so be
and the idea is the reason that it works
this way is because there is no the one
there is no the one until you're in the
relationship there
are lots of people there there's an
there's a lot of people who are your
match I mean if the folks at Isis can
find thousands of people to be their
match in their kind of weird
sociopathic like culture surely there's
more than one person who is the match
for you and it's really about your
preparedness to see it it's just it's
just about your preparedness to see it
and your willingness to go into that to
go into that um that's that intimacy and
that Journey with somebody as scary as
it is yeah yeah I guess another way of
seeing it is that rather than rather
than seeing it as who is a the perfect
match for myself as I am right now or as
I imagine myself to be which door do I
want to step into which doorway of
transformation do I want to walk into
with somebody and grow together and
become potentially the person who is
free in such a way that this
relationship brings me freedom and like
my I don't even it I don't even know if
there's a choice like that what seems to
happen is there's some sort of I mean
there's they've done these This research
on phermones where
like women smell men's like sweatshirts
and they like are attracted to the
same sweatshirt as the as the person who
wore it like there is all these weird
things like that so I don't know how
much Choice there is I I was just
thinking about a definition of marriage
that I really liked which was something
like let's see if I can if I can
remember it it was something to the
effect of um two people thinking that
they're not good enough coming together
in an attempt to try to find out that
they're good
enough wow that's what I think is
happening it's like and it's based on
their traumas and so we we seem to
attract people who as we've talked about
before who who
basically will help us heal the traumas
that we're there to work
on and so that we're here to work on and
so there're going to be people who
remind us of
have some some similarities to the
people who who were creators of that
trauma and that that have that
interesting like um have that tendency
to bring us into that place that needs
to be healed and so that seems to be
what happens when you find the right
person that person seems to
be be the one to you seem to be
attracted to the one who's ready to like
play that role so that you can heal that
part of yourself okay so what if what if
I'm wanting the one if I found the
person or people who have exactly the
set of triggers for me yeah and they
don't want
me then
what but then apparently that's the
trigger
I I I I would say that there's right so
there's all of the ways in which
people say they want love and they don't
get love right so that whether that's
I'm trying to find the person and I
can't find them or I found the person
but they don't want me or I have once
again I found myself attracted to an
emotionally or physically unavailable
person you know like that kind of thing
in all of these
cases what people are doing is they're
beckoning for love and pushing love away
at the same time so like jealousy is
like I want you I want you I want you
but I'm gonna abuse you
and Gaslight you and so you're going to
not want to be around me but I want you
I want you I want you right and so
that's the pattern and all of these
things all of the different ways of of
of of finding a way is finding a way to
push the love away from you while saying
that you want it and the mind just is
like oh I just want it I just want it I
just want it and the subconscious is
like nope pushing you away pushing you
away pushing you away like I've never
never heard a jealous person on their
own come to me and say like yeah I'm
actively pushing away that person that I
really want but when I look at them in
the eye and I'm like hey why are you
pushing away this person with your
jealousy they kind of get this like
subconscious grin on their face and
they're like oh
busted and so it's like all of that is
this all of the ways in which we do it
are uh consciously saying come here come
here come here to love and then
subconsciously pushing it in a way so so
yeah we've talked about jealousy and the
pushpull dynamic and I I agree anytime
I've ever seen somebody with a jealous
partner one of their major reframes is I
feel like I'm being pushed away or
you're pushing me away and not seeing it
uh but what are what are some other ways
that this push and pull Dynamic shows up
in different kinds of
patterns yeah um neediness
Independence you know I I was working
with somebody the other day and they
were they were basically talking about
this idea
that they want they want someone there
to really be able to take care of them
and but they're incredibly self-reliant
and I was describing to them you know
that self-reliance makes it really hard
for people to show up for you right like
we all know the people that's hard that
are hard to help they're hard to help
because they never show any weakness
they're hard to help because they say
I've got it I've got it I've got it
they're hard to help because when you
help them they get angry at you they is
like and they're super self-reliant
folks and I I I suffer this right and
and so I know it well and so the the the
thing that happens there is that they're
pushing people away with their
self-reliance and so I was talking to
this person about it and she was saying
self-reliance and at the same time she
was talking about her father who
abandoned her and and a mom that was a
little unstable and we were going
through the thing and I said oh your dad
didn't abandon you he was just being
self-reliant and you just saw a click
slow motion click and the next day she's
like oh he never abandoned me because
I'm because he was being self-reliant I
see it now I see how he was taking care
of himself in this strange world that he
had found himself in and he was he was
doing what he had to do to take care of
himself and I said yeah and do you also
see how you felt it as an abandonment
for
years that's how people feel when you're
self-reliant o yeah right and so so
that's the that's like that's how the
self-reliance thing works as an example
or the neediness thing is the same thing
it's like nobody wants a sexual
relationship with their like someone
they have to take care of right so on
one level it's like oh I want you why
aren't you here from me on another level
I'm being needy and I'm pushing away
because we want to have relationships
with peers not yeah people we have to we
don't want to car take people by by
Nature so that's another example but
there's there's plenty of examples of
the ways that people push and pull and
usually there's multiple if someone's
either only attracted to the emotionally
unavailable person or the physically
unavailable person or whether they're um
continually searching for the the right
person it's all it's all another version
of it
and again there's more Nuance there in
the languaging too like you said nobody
wants a sexual relationship with
somebody they need to take care of and
that doesn't mean necessarily that if
somebody's injured and they need
somebody to take care of them or
something that that's it's like take
care of on a on like the level of the
relationship as like a parent to child
take care of relationship rather than
like a that's right peers adult to adult
relationship yeah and and and you can
what's interesting to me is you can see
this in marriages
too what you see is like oh it's been 10
years and the sex is dead and I'm like
yeah okay so where's the parent child
relationship like who's walking on
eggshells who's trying to make sure the
other person's happy because that shit's
happening if the sex is dead you know so
so that's another example of it yeah
what are what are other examples anymore
you got jealousy neediness Independence
as some patterns that people play out
here what's any other
yeah there's there's another one
transactional this one I was I I I
recently discovered it was really an
interesting thing I I worked with a
client for a long time
and and I noticed like all of his
relationships were there
was there was negotiation in them and
and it was not just like regular
negotiation it was like it was like
constant negotiation like it was just
like you and and it was always prolonged
and I was trying to figure out what it
was you know like what is it that makes
you want to constantly negotiate with
your business partners and then he finds
you know we do this work to find a
person he finds a person he's um and
they they are like getting married and
there's like an eight-month prenup
negotiation I'm just like what is
happening and and this is one
where it just took me a hard time a long
time to understand it what I noticed is
that people I think think people
particularly people who were bullied but
also people who have really understood
like and been been hurt by power
struggle
generally trust relationships that are
transactional I know what you want and
what you're getting you know what I want
what I'm getting like let like if it's
not there if it's like oh we just love
each other and we want to be together
there's this uh there's like oh I can't
trust that because everybody has a want
everybody has a desire and and and so I
don't trust unless we're upfront about
that
transaction and so what I notice is that
people who are transactional they will
use the transactional part of it to push
away the intimacy because it's that that
deeper level of intimacy and love is
very scary and so the transactional part
of it is a way to create distance from
the intimacy is another example of it
that seems related to a fear of being in
the unknown and in the Wonder as well
well like I need to reduce this
relationship to what I can understand
and encapsulate in a in a formal model
and feel safe in
it yeah yeah yes definitely I think love
is not is not a secure feeling it's a
kind of a weird thing to say meaning
that on one level it's very secure you
feel love and you feel this deep sense
of
security on another level it goes away
and so and the loss of Love is is
one of the most painful things that
humans go through and and so there's
this like inherent thing of willing to
be hurt if you're falling in love if you
are falling in love you're are saying I
sign up to be hurt and there is no
[__] way around it there is no way
you are going to get married and live
happily after or be in a you know loving
six-way relationship and live happily
ever after however you do it and you're
not going to get hurt is you're going to
get hurt you're going to get hurt
potentially daily right and potentially
really really really badly like that's
what you're signing up for hey I'm
willing to be hurt and and that part of
it is also like a fear that's also a
fear of losing oneself right if I get
hurt like that I'm gonna be gone for
months maybe you know I'm gonna be
totally lost in it yeah and so these are
like this is the the real fear and if we
can get to the place of oh every time I
allow my heart to break every time it it
increases my capacity to
love every time that I I draw a boundary
it increases my capacity to love every
time that I I I'm vulnerable and I I it
increases my capacity to love myself
like all of these things that are being
avoided are the tools to learn how to
love more deeply and so to some degree
it's like a pattern that I see people
get into for year like maybe decades
they're like because they're avoiding
this pain they're avoiding the tools of
of learning to love more deeply yeah and
and and it doesn't last like the other
thing about it is like there is no
relationship where that hot
like oo I'm like so crushy on you like
stays that shit's gone in like four five
months and you see people trying to find
that over and over again that's another
way in which they push away love because
that that is like a that is like sugar
high and you know you want that that
real good stuff you want the really good
love that happens with a mature
relationship where you have worked
through [__] and you have you you have
been with each other through thick and
thin that's when that love shows up my
my experience of that is a little bit
different there's there's like that
initial four to five months but I also
notice that every time we break through
a new level of intimacy like break
through into a new level intimacy
suddenly that comes back for that for a
period of time there's like and it's
almost like we're stepping more and more
into the relationship and every time we
do that there's a new kind of phase of
wow I've never experienced this before
so it gets to feel like that crushy
phase even in year three year four I've
never been to year 20 but I imagine it
can happen that yeah it's like that that
phase is associated that Elation is
associated with like reaching a new
layer of depth and I don't see there
being an end to the potential death I
have I haven't experienced the end but
what I noticed is that the high is
different yeah that the high becomes
less
like and more
like like it's just a different High you
know yeah that's a really good way to
describe that yeah and so the crushy
stuff yeah that so my my experience is
just like yours just just different
words to describe it yeah okay so we we
talked about a number of these patterns
here and the ways that people have that
kind of push and pull relationship
through jealousy neediness
Independence
transactional and what about other
patterns like what about people who just
think that they're not pretty enough or
don't or aren't powerful enough don't
have enough to get a
relationship yeah so again go to the
Walmart check out the married couples
who are walking around like EV
everything that you think you have to be
there will be an example of somebody
there who's not with a with somebody so
what that is more of a reflection of is
mostly what you think you have to be to
be lovable which means mostly what you
think you have to be to love yourself
which is by the way never works out when
you get the perfect body it it's not
like oh I love myself now that [__] that
doesn't happen or if you get the billion
dollars and the status and you know
whatever it is so it's mostly what was
imprinted upon you when you were young
and you internalized and then decided
you needed to be that to get love yeah
it's it's that and it's often what you
think the other person has to
have it's often what you think what what
you think someone who's love because you
think that's what's lovable you think
they need to have it yeah oh they need
to have the money or the whatever to
whatever the maybe it's not money
exactly but it like the the
that that that uh other side of the
pattern so it could be like I need the I
need the money so that I can get
somebody who has the cache or whatever I
need the look so that I can get someone
to have the money but there's there's
like um there's like
a the two sides of that coin maybe
there's a male female side of that coin
that that Society plays out but
generally that you can pretty much tell
what you think the other person has to
have
too
which which never [__] works out like
that's the other thing is that nobody
was like here's the list of things that
I need in a man so that I can be happy
and then when they find the love of
their life because I deal with this all
the time with a client right client's
like I'm looking for love and they're
like here's the six things that I need
and I'm not really going to be able to
to to date anybody doesn't have these
six things and then and then they do the
work on really allowing it in really
allowing love in really
um get over that like the fear of losing
themselves deal with the trauma in their
childhood whatever they do and then boom
they're in the relationship they're
happy it's amazing and I guarantee you
they do not have all six of those things
guarant freaking toe you that that's not
not how it works yeah so along those
lines what do you do how do you stop
being that pushing and pulling Dynamic
yeah yeah so there's three things like
yeah I this reminds me of something that
I wish I could give this person credit
um but it's confidential who was at the
at the retreat um but one of the people
in The Retreat said something beautiful
he said I am uh I resolve
to or my intention I think it was my
intention he said my intention isn't
to is to no longer look for love but to
be
love and that a beautiful moment that
was a beautiful moment and so that's a
that like that sums it up better than I
possibly could um it's learning to
receive love it's learning to love
yourself it's learning to be loving I
think but most importantly it is untying
what was wired with love so
oftentimes I had let's say I this is not
true for well it's kind of true for me
but um having somebody who guilt trips
you as your as your imprint of
love and then you constantly did stuff
that you didn't want to do because you
felt
guilty as that example means that you're
going to be scared of being in a
relationship where you're going to be
guilted and lose yourself trying to
please somebody who's not pleas and they
constantly guilt you right so then
you're going to see any motion as a
strategy to guilt you rather than what's
going on for the person that's right
that's right and so the idea is the
thing to do is to separate what's been
wired together with
love separate those things and start
experiencing love without it and start
realizing that it's like you nobody has
the right to guilt you nobody has the
right to shame you nobody has you have
every right to draw your boundary so
when you do that work when you do do the
work of separating the love and and and
learning the tools that you can rely on
to not fall into those patterns and you
have that confidence then the love shows
up and and a lot of that can be done
through learning to love yourself and
being loving and and and any way that
you can take this risk I I I'll give you
an example I'm working with a client
right now who's in a who's in a marriage
and and they weren't working on the
marriage for a while now they're working
on the marriage and we were just talking
about some of the things that are really
important we were talking about how
critical it is
to speak your truth whether whether it's
comfortable or not and how critical it
is to listen and partially be in view
and let the person really share their
experience and and one of the things we
were talking about is like how important
it is to be in an to be openhearted with
the
person and
he's like intellectually I know this
intellectually I know that this is the
case however my body feels like I am
being conned if I'm open to somebody
who's been mean to me I am getting taken
advantage of I am
weak and that that's what like that's
what he was taught at a young age that
being loving and open towards somebody
is being taken advantage of it's like
you're you're going to get taken
advantage of that's a weakness you can't
you can't show that and so learning that
and you know and this this person
happens to like have gone to the Gandhi
ashram and everything so I was like so
Gandhi Gandhi's weak and he's like I
[__] know that Joe he's like I know
it's not true but my body believes it
you know and yeah and so that's another
example of like being really loving it's
like even in a marriage you're learning
how to drop the defense be undefended
and lean into love and be open and to
know that that openness doesn't mean
that you're doesn't mean that you don't
draw the boundary doesn't mean you don't
care for yourself but it is an
acknowledgement that you're willing to
be hurt if you're not willing to be hurt
you're not in a
relationship one of the things that
strikes me about what you were just
saying is that like I he's like I okay I
intellectually know this but my body
knows but it still sounds like it was
actually just not the feeling but the
meaning made of the feeling that was
happening
oh that's fascinating this feeling means
that I'm being betrayed this feeling
means
that but if you go straight to the
feeling that's is that really what's
happening or is that just like the
body's got a response that you've
interpreted as that I think I think it's
both is my experience is that usually
when you have a very particular feeling
that
happens oftentimes it's tied to the next
feeling so it's like oh you step on the
pattern C cycle yeah yeah exactly so you
feel the emotional ABC you know steps
and you're right then there's this
interpretation what is it that's
actually going on here and and I think
about that moment in the retreat that we
had which um one of the people who was
really interested in learning to receive
love and learning to um be open and and
stop tying love together with the
rejection of Dad
was in a cuddle puddle and if you
remember her description of it like so
she's being cuddled by all these people
after this big thing and she's like so
she has this big emotional experience
and she was being loved up and and
everybody was like cuddling her and she
was like it was so painful it was so
painful I I felt like it was like
burning and and then I could feel a
little bit of joy and then it was
burning and then I could feel like
literally it that's her
reprogramming that experience of of love
I I think that the the important piece
that we haven't
mentioned is that this doesn't stop when
you find the
person like I I defined marriage earlier
this way is that we're like we found
somebody who has like matching traumas
so that we can learn that we're we're
good enough like once you get into the
relationship it's the same commitment
it's the same commitment of learning how
to drop the arm in learning how to be
open and loving in the in the face of it
and learning how to deepen into that
love the work never ends and and when
somebody asks me hey do you think this
is the right person my answer is always
the same are you both willing to do the
work if you're both willing to do the
work if you're both willing to look at
yourselves not work on each other work
on yourselves and find out how you can
love yourself better and each other
better yeah it's it's going to work it
might be bumpy as
[__] how much how much can you be with
that burning
sensation you take tear in my
relationship it got really bumpy in the
first couple years like crazy so yeah I
mean it could get bumpy but you'll make
it if that's the commitment if that if
that's really the
[Music]
commitment lovely I think that's a great
place to end this yeah yeah I feel
really good about this one thanks Brett
for a wonderful conversation and for
everybody out there listening you can
feel free to follow us in any way that
you want to you can come to a course or
you can follow us on Twitter anything
that inspires you and um feel free to
share this with anybody that you want
all right talk to you soon thanks
everybody thanks Joe thank
you